Wrote new article on how to ask good questions (#396)
unicorn-utterances/unicorn-utterances: content/blog/how-to-ask-good-questions/index.md

---
{
	title: "How to ask better questions",
	description: "We all ask questions from time to time, so here are some of my favourite tips when it comes to how to improve the quality of your questions.",
	published: '2022-07-20T20:10:03.000Z',
	authors: ['alexchadwick'],
	tags: ['opinion'],
	attached: [],
	license: 'cc-by-nc-sa-4'
}
---

## Introduction

In this day and age, the programming ecosystem has become so rich and complex that asking questions is inevitable for any developer, regardless of what stage of their career they find themselves in.

> However, it is not always easy to ask a question, and often you'll see StackOverflow questions being downvoted or taken down due to the question being of poor quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, it is not always easy to ask a question, and often you'll see StackOverflow questions being downvoted or taken down because of a sense of confusion around the question itself.
```

So in this article, I wanted to cover the basics on how to improve your questions, in order to get good answers.

Note: Most of these concepts could also apply to opening issues on OSS projects, or to give feedback to different pieces of software

## Define the exact problem you're facing

Now whilst this sounds simple, there are many people who struggle to define their problem. If you're not able to identify the problem you've got, how do you expect other people to be able to identify it for you?

The most basic way to define your problem is to explain what the expected behaviour is, and what the actual behaviour is. For example:

> *I've written a function `sum` that is meant to return the sum of 2 numbers. When I do `sum(1, 1);` I'm expecting it to return 2, however it's returning 1.*

Now whoever is reading my question knows what I'm trying to achieve and what is currently happening.

I see a lot of questions where people describe their expected behaviour but omit their current behaviour, or the other way around.

> Also feel free to share screenshots if whatever you're working on has graphics, however **never** use screenshots for code, output, or errors that may display on the command line. Most people prefer that you copy and paste them instead, and it ensures it remains accessible for people with disabilities and translatable for people that speak different languages. Only use images when you need to if possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also, feel free to share screenshots if whatever you're working on has graphics, however, **always try to avoid using screenshots for code, output, or errors that may display on the command line**. Most people prefer that you copy and paste them instead, as it ensures it remains accessible for people with disabilities and translatable for people that speak different languages. Only use images when you need to if possible.
```

## Share what you have tried

Just to save everyone some time, and also get a better understanding of the entire problem, share what you have already tried. If you haven't tried anything yet, try googling for similar problems, and at least attempt to brainstorm a solution. Do your best to try something before asking someone else.

Sharing what you've tried helps people to rule out anything you've already tried and they can concentrate on thinking of another solution that might work. Following my basic example:

> *I've also tried to pass in 2 and 2 and that seemed to work, but then if I passed in 3 and 2 I would get 6.*
> 
> 
> 
> *Finally I've tried to do sum like the following but that also didn't work:*
> 
> ```javascript
> function sum(a, b) {
>     return b * a;
> }
> ```

## Other tips for asking questions

Those are the main tips that are applicable to any programming question, regardless of  where / when you're asking the question. But there are other tips that may apply to more specific situations that I want to talk about in this section:

* ###### Choose the right time and the right person

>   Are you asking someone at work or in your household? Firstly make sure that it's a good time for them. If they're busy working away then don't disturb them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Are you asking someone at work or in your household? Firstly make sure that it's a good time for them. If they're busy working away then you might want to try to find a different time to ask your question.
```

* ###### Do some research
  Are there any terms you're unsure of that are relevant to your question? Look around first and make sure *you* know the entire problem before expecting other people to.

* ###### If something's not clear then ask about it
  It's easy to feel bad when someone explains something to you and you still don't fully understand and need to ask again. There is no shame in asking someone to be clearer as long as you're being respectful about it. They're already helping you which means they're probably happy to give away some of their time to help you out!

> * ###### Don't take up too much of someone's time
>   It's fine if you ask for help and it takes someone 15 minutes to help you out. However if you know this is going to take a longer amount of time, or you notice like the person helping you is starting to get impatient, it's fine to leave it for another time! You could simply ask them when is a more convenient time for you two to have another go at it? Something like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ###### Be understanding of other people's time
  Most clearly defined questions can be solved in 15 minutes or less. If you find that a problem is taking longer than that, or you notice the person helping you is taking longer to reply, it's okay to ask for continued help for another time! You could simply ask them when is a more convenient time for you two to have another go at it? Something like:
```

  
  > *"This is taking more time than it thought it would, is it OK if I asked you if we could give it another go maybe when you've got a bit more time?"*
  
  Most times people will be happy to!

> * ###### Finally, asking bad questions from time to time is fine
>   Don't feel bad if you've asked a bad question. It's easy to forget that sometimes Google exists and you ask a coworker something that could've been answered faster by the internet! Similarly, don't lash out when someone asks you a bad question. Instead kindly teach them how to ask good questions for future reference!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ###### Finally, asking "bad" questions from time to time is fine
  Don't feel bad if you've asked a question that you're worried is low quality. It's easy to forget that sometimes Google exists and you ask a coworker something that could've been answered faster by the internet! Similarly, don't lash out when someone asks you a bad question. Instead, kindly teach them how to ask better questions for future reference!
```

Now whoever is reading my question knows what I'm trying to achieve and what is currently happening.

I see a lot of questions where people describe their expected behaviour but omit their current behaviour, or the other way around.

Also feel free to share screenshots if whatever you're working on has graphics, however **never** use screenshots for code, output, or errors that may display on the command line. Most people prefer that you copy and paste them instead, and it ensures it remains accessible for people with disabilities and translateable for people that speak different languages. Only use images when you need to if possible.

## Share your problematic code

If you can pinpoint the problematic code, then it's important that you share it. If it's too large introduce a link to a pastebin or github repository and explain what you're linking to so people know where to find your code, but remember not to link your entire repository as people don't have the time to be searching through your code to find the problem.

In my previous example I would do the following:

> > *This is where `sum` is defined and how I'm calling `sum`:
> > 
> > ```javascript
> > function sum(a, b) {
> >     return a * b;
> > }
> > 
> > 
> > const result = sum(1, 1); // result == 1?
> > ```
> > 
> > *

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> *This is where `sum` is defined and how I'm calling `sum`:*
> 
> ```javascript
> function sum(a, b) {
>     return a * b;
> }
> 
> 
> const result = sum(1, 1); // result == 1?
> ```
```

This italics formatting doesn't appear to work on the site (or in GitHub's markdown preview) when it's split between multiple lines. (I've moved it to surround the first line to fix that)

> It also helps to introduce some comments if you don't have them already to add notes or explain some complex piece of code or maybe a function that is defined elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It also helps to introduce some comments if you don't have them already. These can add notes, explain a complex piece of code, or describe a function that is defined elsewhere.
```

Splitting up a longer sentence - I also try to avoid using either "and" or "or" multiple times in the same sentence when commas can be substituted instead, as that can be confusing to read.

## Share what you have tried

Just to save everyone some time, and also get a better understanding of the entire problem, share what you have already tried. If you haven't tried anything yet, try googling for similar problems, and at least attempt to brainstorm a solution. Do your best to try something before asking someone else.

Sharing what you've tried helps people to rule out anything you've already tried and they can concentrate on thinking of another solution that might work. Following my basic example:

> *I've also tried to pass in 2 and 2 and that seemed to work, but then if I passed in 3 and 2 I would get 6.*
> 
> 
> 
> *Finally I've tried to do sum like the following but that also didn't work:*
> 
> ```javascript
> function sum(a, b) {
>     return b * a;
> }
> ```

## Other tips for asking questions

Those are the main tips that are applicable to any programming question, regardless of  where / when you're asking the question. But there are other tips that may apply to more specific situations that I want to talk about in this section:

> * **Choose the right time and the right person**
>   Are you asking someone at work or in your household? Firstly make sure that it's a good time for them. If they're busy working away then don't disturb them.
> 
> * **Do some research**
>   Are there any terms you're unsure of that are relevant to your question? Look around first and make sure *you* know the entire problem before expecting other people to.
> 
> * **If something's not clear then ask about it**
>   It's easy to feel bad when someone explains something to you and you still don't fully understand and need to ask again. There is no shame in asking someone to be clearer as long as you're being respectful about it. They're already helping you which means they're probably happy to give away some of their time to help you out!
> 
> * **Don't take up too much of someone's time**
>   It's fine if you ask for help and it takes someone 15 minutes to help you out. However if you know this is going to take a longer amount of time, or you notice like the person helping you is starting to get impatient, it's fine to leave it for another time! You could simply ask them when is a more convenient time for you two to have another go at it? Something like:
>   
>   > *"This is taking more time than it thought it would, is it OK if I asked you if we could give it another go maybe when you've got a bit more time?"*
>   
>   Most times people will be happy to!
> 
> * **Finally, asking bad questions from time to time is fine**
>   Don't feel bad if you've asked a bad question. It's easy to forget that sometimes Google exists and you ask a coworker something that could've been answered faster by the internet! Similarly, don't lash out when someone asks you a bad question. Instead kindly teach them how to ask good questions for future reference!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* ###### Choose the right time and the right person
  Are you asking someone at work or in your household? Firstly make sure that it's a good time for them. If they're busy working away then don't disturb them.

* ###### Do some research
  Are there any terms you're unsure of that are relevant to your question? Look around first and make sure *you* know the entire problem before expecting other people to.

* ###### If something's not clear then ask about it
  It's easy to feel bad when someone explains something to you and you still don't fully understand and need to ask again. There is no shame in asking someone to be clearer as long as you're being respectful about it. They're already helping you which means they're probably happy to give away some of their time to help you out!

* ###### Don't take up too much of someone's time
  It's fine if you ask for help and it takes someone 15 minutes to help you out. However if you know this is going to take a longer amount of time, or you notice like the person helping you is starting to get impatient, it's fine to leave it for another time! You could simply ask them when is a more convenient time for you two to have another go at it? Something like:
  
  > *"This is taking more time than it thought it would, is it OK if I asked you if we could give it another go maybe when you've got a bit more time?"*
  
  Most times people will be happy to!

* ###### Finally, asking bad questions from time to time is fine
  Don't feel bad if you've asked a bad question. It's easy to forget that sometimes Google exists and you ask a coworker something that could've been answered faster by the internet! Similarly, don't lash out when someone asks you a bad question. Instead kindly teach them how to ask good questions for future reference!
```

These line breaks inside list items are not preserved in the rendered markdown. In other articles, I've used headings to do this instead - which also changes the margin/font size, making it a bit easier to find things at a glance.
